---
date: "2019-09-19T11:15:00Z"
tags: 
- hugo
- github
title: How to deploy a Hugo project to GitHub Pages with GitHub Actions
---

Over the years I have tried many static site generators to help manage my personal site and other projects. 

Recently, I decided I wanted to find a setup that utilized github pages and did not rely on any local tooling for building or deploying my site. 

I really liked how easy it was to use [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and once I found this great little project [GitHub Actions for Hugo](https://github.com/peaceiris/actions-hugo) I knew I had a solution.

Here are some instructions detailing how I setup my site. You can find more details in the [Getting Started](https://github.com/peaceiris/actions-hugo#getting-started) section of the [GitHub Actions for Hugo](https://github.com/peaceiris/actions-hugo) project.


## 1. Generate a SSH deploy key

Create your deploy key with the following command:

```
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "$(git config user.email)" -f gh-pages -N ""
```

This will generate 2 files:
- gh-pages.pub (public key)
- gh-pages     (private key)

Next, go to the github repository **Settings** and do the following:

- Go to **Deploy Keys** and add your public key with `Allow write access` checked
- Go to **Secrets** and add your private key as `ACTIONS_DEPLOY_KEY`

## 2. Create a source branch

Create a `source` branch in your repository. In the setup you will have 2 branches `master` and `source` where `source` contains all of your source files and `master` is the location where your built site files are deployed and served up.

## 3. Create a workflow

Go to the github repository **Settings** and under **Actions** turn on `Enable local and third party Actions for this repository`.

Next, in the new `source` branch create the following file: `.github/workflows/main.yml`.  

Here is an example that I am using for this site:

```yaml
name: github pages

on:
  push:
    branches:
      - source

jobs:
  build-deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-18.04
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@master

      - name: Setup Hugo
        uses: peaceiris/actions-hugo@v2
        with:
          hugo-version: "latest"

      - name: Build
        run: hugo --gc --minify --cleanDestinationDir
      
      - name: Deploy
        uses: peaceiris/actions-gh-pages@v2
        env:
          ACTIONS_DEPLOY_KEY: ${{ secrets.ACTIONS_DEPLOY_KEY }}
          PUBLISH_BRANCH: master
          PUBLISH_DIR: ./public
```

## 4. Push your Hugo project

Now you can commit and push your hugo project to the `source` branch of your repository. This should trigger the new workflow for the new action which will build and deploy your site to the `master` branch.